This video we'll learn more about the T.L. deck container in order to use the deck.
We must pound include the deck header file.
The deck acts like a double ended cue the deck size is dynamic and it's handled by the SPL so that's
very much like a vector but unlike a vector the elements in the deck are not stored in contiguous memory
the deck allows direct element access using the subscript operator and the dot at method.
But unlike a vector that allows efficient insertion deletion only at the back of the deck allows efficient
insertion and deletion at the back and at the front.
However inserting elements into any other part of the deck other than the front or back is not as efficient.
The deck supports all of the iterators and the iterators may become invalid again especially when the
deck changes size.
Let's first look at a few ways to initialize decks and then we'll see some of its member methods.
In the first example in the slide I declared as a deck of integers and initialized it to 1 2 3 4 and
5.
And the second example I declared D1 is a deck of integers and I'm using an overloaded constructor to
create 10 integers and initialize them all to 100.
Of course like all the ACL containers the deck supports copy and move semantics for initialisation and
assignment.
In the third example I'm declaring Stooges as a deck of stewed strings and I'm initializing it to Larry
Moe and Curly.
Now I notice that Moe is a C-style string.
Like vectors and stood to raise decks also support assignment via initialiser list.
So let's see some common methods provided by the deck container.
In this slide we'll see what a simple deck looks like.
We declare D is a deck of integers and we initialize it to 1 to 3.
The deck has a front end to back the front.
In this case is the element one and the back is element 3 with a deck we can efficiently add elements
and remove elements from both the front and the back.
In a deck the pushback method works very much as it does in a vector.
The element to be added is pushed at the back of the deck.
And the push front method adds the element to be inserted at the front of the deck.
Now let's see how the elements in the deck might be stored in memory.
Remember the decks elements are not in contiguous memory so usually a deck is implemented as a collection
of memory blocks and these memory blogs contain elements that are in a contiguous memory but the blocks
themselves are not in contiguous memory.
So a good way to think of a deck is as a linked list of vectors.
So when we add an element at the front it adds it if there is space.
If not it will allocate a new block add the element to that block and then link in the block.
The same happens when we had an element at the back again please refer to the C++ as T.L. documentation
for details on all of the methods for the deck.
There's a lot there and that's the place to go to the documentation is your friend.
Don't think programmers keep all these details in our heads.
We don't.
We refer to the C++ docs very often.
Generally it's open on a second monitor.
It's the same for Java programmers.
Usually they've got the Java docs open and a second monitor.
And that's where all the good information is.
So let's see some of these methods.
Let's start with the size method.
This method returns the number of elements that are in the deck.
The max size we've already seen with vectors and stood arrays pretty big number that just says how many
elements can I store decs also allow individual access using either the subscript operator or the DOT
method.
And the rules are the same here if you use the subscript operator no bounds checking is done.
But if you use the dot method bounds checking will happen and an exception will be thrown if you're
out of bounds.
In this case you can see that I'm using Didcot at 0 that refers to the one in the deck D and D of one
refers to the to the deck also provides front and back methods that return references to the elements
at the front of the deck.
And at the back of the deck.
So in this example the up front refers to the one and drop back refers to the five as I previously mentioned
the deck allows for efficiently inserting and removing elements at the front and at the back.
Inserting is done with the push back method and the push front method.
We also have a pop back and a pop front which you efficiently remove elements from the back of the front.
In this slide we have a deck of person objects him called it de we can create a person P1 named Larry
who's 18 years old and we can use the push back method to insert one at the back of the deck.
We can also remove it using putback.
Similarly we can out a person object to the front of the deck with push front and remove it with pop
front.
Remember all container classes make copies of the elements they store the deck container also supports
and place front end in place back which are super efficient ways to create initialize objects and store
them in the deck right in place.
So now let's head over to the ID.
We'll see some examples.
And in the video after that we'll have some challenge exercises that use decs.
OK so I mean the idea I'm in the section 20 workspace in the deck.
Project and this is a really simple example.
The idea behind using a deck is that we're going to use the front of it or the back of it.
We're not really going to be inserting things into the middle of it if you need to do that kind of thing.
You're probably better off using a list.
We'll talk about the list later.
So I'm not going to go into any of the fancy stuff where you can insert things into the middle of a
deck I'm just going to keep it really simple because that's usually the way we use a deck.
So let's start with looking what we've got here we're including a deck of vector and an algorithm we're
using the vector in a minute just to do a little simple example.
And here I've got my display function that will display any type of deck.
I'm only using decks of integers in this example but it's nice to have this template function.
You can play around with it and practice writing these actually.
This is a really really easy one to write.
I went over this one in the previous video and watched the video for A-factors.
OK so let's take a look at test one I've already run the program the output is over here on the right
and the console.
And let's walk through these tests.
You can understand what's happening here.
So this is test one right here you can see the output of test one right up here.
First thing we're doing is we're declaring D as a deck of integers and we're putting one to five in
there and then we're displaying the deck so there it is right here just as we would expect then then
I've got an assignment.
I'm using the initialiser list to assign which again is really handy.
So now D is 2 4 5 6 on displaying that you can see two four five six right here.
Now just like we did with the vector here I'm creating 10 100s and I'm putting them in the deck and
displaying them you can see all ten hundreds right here.
And the last thing is right here we're doing direct access to the deck.
You don't often do this with a deck.
Remember the deck.
The whole point of a deck is to be doubly and ended cues you're going to work on the front you're going
to work at the back.
That's the idea but it lets you have random access to the elements within it.
Add in constant time which is cool.
So the Sub-Zero with the index operator is this is D-Nev..
So it's going to put a 100 in here and D at one we'll put 200 in there.
And when we display that you can see right here the 100 to 200 replaced the one in the two.
All right so that's pretty straightforward.
Let's look at test to test two is the real workhorse here.
This is the way you typically use a deck we're using push back and push front and putback and so forth.
So let's go over this one.
These are the methods that you're going to really use a lot with the deck.
So what I'm doing here is creating creating a deck called again of integers and it's 0 0 0.
And the reason I put 0 0 0 in there is just so we can have these three zeros in the center.
That way you can really understand how things are being pushed in and we're displaying it.
You can see right there the three zeroes.
Now we're saying push back a 10 and then push back a 20.
That means that the back.
So first I push back the 10 and then the 20 and are being pushed back this way and display them.
And you can see what we've got three zeros 10 and a 20 now I want to push front so now I'm going to
push these guys at the front 100 and then I push 200 I'm pushing them this way and then displaying it
again and I've got right here two hundred.
One hundred.
The three zeros and then the 10 and 20 of course are still there.
We've got our front method which returns a reference to the front element which in this case is that
guy right here.
I've got my back method which returns a reference to the back element which is the 20 read here and
decide which is seven.
So when we look at the output right here you can see the back the front is 200.
The back is 20 and the size is seven and we display it right after we pop a few things off.
So let's try that.
So first thing we do is we pop the back.
That guy's gone.
And then we pop the front.
That guy guy's gone and we display it again.
So now we're going to display 100 0 0 0 10.
Notice how the two hundred and twenty are gone.
So this is really the way you're going to use the deck if you find yourself using a deck and fiddling
around with the middle elements and inserting things into the middle and doing all kinds of stuff like
that.
Maybe the deck is not what you should be using.
Consider using a list and we'll talk about a list in the next section of the horse.
OK so that takes care of tests too.
Let's take a look at test three and what I've got here and test three.
This is what I want to do.
I've got a vector of 10 integers right here 1 through 10 and I've got a deck which is empty.
And what I want to do is I want to insert all the even numbers into the back of the deck and all the
odd numbers into the front.
It's pretty easy to do.
I could just use arranged base for loop right here and I can iterate over that vector member we're coming
from a vector to a deck this time.
And if the element Montu is zero that means it is even.
And if it's even pushing it onto the back right so where we start we're starting with the numbers.
Even We're pushing it in the back.
The numbers are all pushing to the front so we're going to have the one the two the three four five
six this is what's going to happen.
Yate the nine and the 10 that's the result right there.
And when we look at the display for test three right here that's exactly what we've got.
We've got all the odd numbers here and all the even numbers right there.
Now let's take a look at test for test fours.
Simple but important.
It shows you the ordering of things.
When we push stuff on the front versus we push on the back.
The order is obviously different but this confuses people sometimes.
And I've seen a lot of little mistakes from programmers that use decks this way and it comes up a lot
in code reviews.
So let's take a look here we've got a vector again.
Through 10.
And what I'm doing is I'm going through the entire vector this time there's no if statement there's
no or even stuff that's all I'm doing is I'm going through that vector and grabbing each element and
I'm pushing it in the front.
So we're starting at the one so we're pushing it one two three four five remember pushing things on
the front.
So this is the result that's in line right there.
That's the results when I display this and again I mean test for.
You can see it's 10 9 8 all the way down to 1.
I'm going to clear the deck here.
Then I'm going to do the same thing except now I'm going to push back.
This time we're pushing this way right.
So we're going to have one two three four five six seven eight nine and ten.
And when we display that you can see that that's exactly what we get.
Obviously the order is going to be different.
Right one is going to be going from one to 10 the other from 10 to 1 depending on whether we do a push
front or a push back.
And as I said this is sounds simple but I've seen a lot of little mistakes using this because somehow
people get confused.
Let's take a look at the last test test five.
So what we're going to do now is we're going to do the same thing we did didn't test for except we're
going to use to copy to do it.
So what do we have we have the same vector.
And we have a deck that's empty again and what we're going to do is we're simply going to copy everything
into vector from begin to end and we're going to use the front or iterator to do it.
Or one line of code handles this really really easily.
So again a loop through the vector at the entire vector and for each element that vector insert it to
the front of the deck.
So this is test five.
When we display that this is what we get right here.
Notice it's the same as test for because we're starting at the front and we can clear the deck and do
it again.
So copy vext up began to vector and this time we're going to do the back inserted were inserting at
the back this way.
And what we're going to get is the same thing we got with test 4.
So what should you use.
I tend to like this.
This is much more expressive.
Most programmers will understand this.
A lot of programmers are not real familiar with the algorithms.
So this kind of code right here is foreign to them and they could really mess things up especially junior
programmers junior programmers.
Yes T.L. is a complicated beast and a lot of junior programmers just know the very basics of it.
So when you get a lot of algorithms put together with iterators in his sergers it's likely a lot of
the junior programmers haven't seen that.
So there you go.
That's it.
So that takes care of the deck in the next video.
We'll do the first challenge for the deck.